**And sometime around that, I became an adult...**


I got married in early 2019. I got married and realized that it is not exactly what i had expected. Getting married means dropping your ego, dropping the concept of self, the mask you wear in front of everyone else, being your innermost vulnerable self. It takes time and doesn't happen in a day but it has started to happen. It is not easy to expose yourself and trust someone that much but unless you do, you will always be two people. Sometime around that when I started trusting someone with the gory details of my inside, did I realize I am becoming an adult.

Early 2021, we got a dog. It caused an upheavel in both my personal life and in our relationship. The dynamics changed with a little creature needing attention and love and showering as much of it towards us. This creature who couldn't speak our language taught us many things. The true meaning of unconditional love and being the third wheel in all our happy memories. On a personal level he taught me patience and the fact that all good things take time. Bonding with him took time but the time spent has been worth every penny. Sometime around that I figured I am responsible for giving him a safe space to live and feed him and keep him happy, did I realize I am becoming an adult.

Mid 2021, we outgrew our space and towards the tail end of the pandemic got into the housing market. We were lucky to cash in low interest rates to buy a house much bigger than we needed following in the foot steps of our friends without giving it a more rational thought. Yeah we screwed this one up, but we learned. Owning a house comes with its own responsibilities. You are responsible for knowing a little bit of this machinery called house and how it works and keep it functioning. Time spent doing yard work, cleaning, maintainence etc, exploded multiple folds since moving from an apartment, some of it I enjoy, some of it I do not. Sometime around that when i started doing the things I do not enjoy because they had to be done, did I realize I am becoming an adult.

Mid 2022, I switched jobs after almost 10 years. Working at a company for that long, you are almost programmed in its ways. After being at a place for so long, it is hard to see the world with a different perspective. It was a nerve wracking time to switch jobs because of the ensuing layoffs that rocked the tech world. I learned a few things from these event and (i think ) learned to have some control on my nerves. I had to re program myself to understand the much faster paced engineering culture of this new job and become productive. Sometime around that when i started to enjoy what I do and started to steer my own career, did I realize I have become an adult. 

I have lost people during the pandemic. I saw the size of my beloved family shrink. I cried and wept but I had to move on. I have seen my grandma getting old and regret not being close to her. I know my parents want me to come back and they don't say it often. This is hard decision to make. The lures of the country where I live are hard to pass on. Sometime around that I also realized the things that are truly important to me and I know now that I cannot go wrong with this decision and I can make either of these decisions work. Yes I know I have become an adult.