# Letter to my dog

Where do I begin? We got you, early January of 2021 when you were barely 3 months old. After having done a lot of research on the breed I wanted, my conclusion was that I wanted a small dog, cudly and playful with a bit of a personality. Bichon Frise was first in my shortlist, but those little cottony fur balls somehow gave way to a breed called Havanese. Little did I know at that point a chocolate brown havanese will come into my life and change my life forever. My notion of owning a dog had been fed from what I had heard from hearsay and seen on TVs and ofcourse the numerous reels on Instagram. I had never been close to anyone who has owned a dog. It is pretty un-common to have pets in India back when I was growing up. Growing up as a boy, watching american TV shows , getting a dog was a fantasy I always wanted to fulfill not fully knowing what it might really mean.

End of December 2020 I got a call from a breeder that they have a puppy who might be a good fit for us. We were not ready. We had not planned on getting a puppy in 1 week. Someone who was going to get you had backed out and we were notified last minute. We decided to give it a go. I remember handing the breeder the cash and getting you along with a few things like a blanket smelling of your litter and a few of your toys. You were confused and lost for the first few days, so were we. First few months were hard, incredibly hard. Training you to pee and poop outside, differentiating between carpet and grass took some time. Taking you for your first walk, socializing you with other puppies and humans were some of the unforgettable memories we made together. You were a scared little pupper and I remember you were anxious to go close to other dogs but early puppy socialization helped you overcome this fear and enjoy quality play time with your kind. Thanks to the book called [The Art of Raising a Puppy](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32218.The_Art_of_Raising_a_Puppy?ac=1&from_search=true&qid=PL6WDlfu8n&rank=1) we had some knowhow of the things we needed to do make you a well adjusted dog. It was after the socialization that your personality started to develop and we could see you coming off your own. 


It took me some time to learn how to communicate with you and understand you. It is hard to fall back to communicating with primitive gestures and body language when you are used to doing this with words. I think I am able to get you about 70% of the times, rest 30% is still in progress. However I think I have the basics down. Food, water, outside, play and cuddle. I understand now that when you sleep you have to dig yourself a hole unlike us humans who have to make our bed neat. I understand now that you rub your body against me and show me your belly as mark of ultimate trust, unlike us humans who force you to hug and cuddle us. Sometimes you want me to open the door so you can go sleep in the loft or go see Mommy, these subtle ones are hard and are a hit and miss right now, because you use the same gesture but I will get these right as well eventually. When i play rough with you and topple you when figthing, i know that you trust me enough that i will never hurt you. You  willfully expose your belly and giggle for me to give you belly rubs. As a matter of fact even when i unintentionally hurt you like accidentally stepping on your tail, you even come lick me almost to tell me that I know you didn't do it on purpose. I know you get it why i brush your teeth but hate it nevertheless. One thing that I think every dog owner will admit to learning from there dog is patience. When we have long days at work and are not able to spend as much time with you, you wait patiently for us to get free only to throw the toy or go for a walk. I know you are the happiest when all 3 of us go out together exploring a new park. I can literally see you smiling and with wind in your legs walking with your pack, with your mouth wide open and tongue flopping around. I also do realize that you have your own desires and don't always have to just stick around me/us. As you are getting older I can see how you are calming down and becoming less stubborn about things and like just hanging out by yourself.


It is going to be almost 3 years and I will admit we have had doubts. As a matter of fact, it turns out my wife has allergy to dogs but having to give you away is not even an option. ( I will admit early on during your puppy days, we have had thoughts of returning you, because it was hard and we hadn't established any way to communicate, but that feeling has passed). You have given us more than we could've ever asked for. You have licked our tears and comforted us in moments of anxiety and tension. Every time I scream because Man United concede, I know a fellow red devil will come lick my face and calm me down. I know that you have got my back no matter what happens and I promise you little kiddo i have got yours. I will chase all those rabbits and especially those crows away from the face of the earth with you until eternity. 