[Draft] Stuff Matters is a book by Mark Miodownik and takes you through some fascinating insights about the materials that surround us. If you look around you, none of the materials we are surrounded by are naturally occuring. The cement houses we live which are held in place by steel, the porcelain cups we drink our coffee from, the aluminium/steel vessels we drive ourselves to work in, all of these materials have been manufactured and have been discovered through incredible feat of human capabilities. This book tells the story of some of these common materials and how they came into existence. Yes it will leave you appreciating the things in our lives which we take for granted ( razor blade, case in point ). 

**Steel** 

The story begins with steel. Steel which has been around for thousands of years was really understood by science only in the 20th century. Steel is an alloy made from Iron and Carbon. Iron existly as an ore and has to be extracted, unlike the very little pure iron deposited on earth from Meteorites. Surprise fact that there is a house in northern Bosnia which has been a target of at least 5 different meteorites between 2007 and 2008. Metals are useful as crystals and they fact that heating them allows us to shape them in any form is fascinating. Metal crystals allow for dislocations, which is what gives the metals the unique ability to be shaped as sharp as razor blades as well as flexible like in paper clips and springs. The melting point of a metal is an indicator of how fast the dislocations move, for eg. lead which has a lower melting point is easy to manipulate with hand. Steel is 1% carbon mixed with iron. You add more and the structure becomes brittle. Henry Bessemer perfected the industrialization process of making steel by blowing air through molten iron and carbon, by oxidizing the excess carbon.  

Alloys are stretched crystals, and carbon occupies the empty space between the iron molecules to form steel. Bronze an alloy of Copper with Tin, Aluminum and Lead is way more usable because of not being as soft as copper. Gold when mixed with Silver and Copper can be made into the hard substance that can be used to shape rings and retain its shine.  The Samurai sword was a marvel of manipulating the carbon content in steel. The Japanese figured out how to make the high carbon steel which was hard and could be made sharp wrapped underneath a lower carbon steel which gave the sword the chewiness and wouldn't let the sword snap. This feat couldn't be reproduced by others for hundreds of years until industrialization. King Camp Gilette rode the wave of industrialization of steel and started producing disposable razor blades in 1903. Stainless steel which was discovered when alloys were made by trial and error, it was discovered when one shiny piece of alloy from the discarded pile didn't rust. The thin layer of chromium reacts with oxygen before iron and forms a thin layer of chromium oxide which sticks really well on steel. On top of that , chromium oxide being tasteless makes possibilities of use endless. Steel. 



**Paper**

Paper starts its life as a tree. It is essentially wood pulp or liquid wood. It is boiled and the cellulose is separated from lignin ( the organic glue in wood, which can last thousands of years). After drying this yields paper. Addition of chalk dust ( calcium carbonate ) gives paper the white color and ability to absorb ink. Paper led the transition of an oral culture of transmitting information through generations via stories and songs. Scroll or a singular long piece of paper containing information was the first format of storing information on paper. Romans replaced it with codex, a book like format. Bible is said to be the first book to be using this format. Paper is strong enough to be bent at creases and still not be torn until enough force is applied to allow for creating shapes with paper ( a la Origami). 


